# If Else Statements

If Else statements are a way for you to be able to be able to control the flow of you program. Not only that they will help to sift through data in files where you might want to look certain pieces of data. But for now let's look at an example of one:

```python
num = 6

if num % 2 == 0:
    print("even")
else:
    print("odd")

```

In this example above, we are trying to check whether or not the number 6 is even. If it is even, the program will print out that it is even and if not it will print out that the number is odd. Pretty simple! Things will get more complicated as you sift through data that is not a number or you need to check data in various ways. You can start nest if statements as well as chain them together depending on the situation. So let's start with an example of a nested loop were we have to check the start and end of a word.

So in the following example, I wanted to figure out how to easily shortcut responses from a user in a a command line program. So for prompts that ask a user 'yes' or 'no', I want the user to be able to either put in yes/no or y/n. As such this is what I more or less wrote:

```python
word = "yes"

if word == "yes":
    if "y" in word:
        print("Console info")

```

Now this code very redundant as you really only need one if statement, but you can see start to the idea of what you can do with this. The other main thing you need to know is that you can chain these 'if' statements together. 

In the following example I am going to show the FizzBuzz problem where we iterate through number 1-100. If a number is divisible by 3 print 'Fizz', if the number is divisible by 5 print 'Buzz', and if they are divisible by both print 'FizzBuzz':

```python
for i in range(1, 101):
    if i % 3 == 0 and i % 5 == 0:
        print("FizzBuzz")
    elif i % 3 == 0:
        print("Fizz")
    elif i % 5 == 0:
        print("Buzz")
```

We can see that we are chaining together if statements together to achieve some result. But overall, you would want to use these if statements to sift through data and eventually extract what we want from data based off of a condition. 